Thank you all for coming today. I am proud to be the first sitting President ever to have visited The Villages. The other ones missed out on a lot. Thanks for having me. Thanks for coming. This is a huge crowd, for which I am grateful. I told Jeb it looks like a beautiful day in The Villages. He said, it's always a beautiful day in The Villages. 

I'm traveling your state to ask for the vote. I think you got to get out amongst the people and say, I want your vote. I'm going to give you some reasons to put me back into office. I also want your help. You need to go to your friends and neighbors. Tell them we have a duty in our free society to vote. When you get them headed to the polls, remind them, if they want a safer America, a stronger America, a better America, to put me and Dick Cheney back in office. 

My one regret is that Laura is not with me today.



I know, that's generally the reaction.  I'm going the give you some reasons, as I said, to put me in, but perhaps the most important one of all is so that Laura is the First Lady for four more years. When I met her again -- see, we went to the 7th grade together in San Jacinto Junior High in Midland, Texas. When I met her again, she was a public school librarian. I said, will you marry me. She said, fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech.  I said, okay, you got a deal. Fortunately, she did not hold me to that promise. She's giving a lot of speeches, and when she does, the American people see a strong, warm, compassionate, great First Lady. 

I am proud of my running mate, Dick Cheney. I readily concede he does not have the waviest hair in the race.  I did not pick him for his hairdo.  I picked him because of his experience and sound judgment. 

I am very proud of my brother, the Governor of Florida, Jeb Bush. He is a strong, consistent leader. You do not have to worry about him shifting his political thoughts because of a poll or a focus group. And when times were tough during the four hurricanes, Jeb led this state with resolve and compassion. Brother Marvin is with us today, as well, and I want to thank Marv for coming. I love to be with my family. I get great strength from my faith, my family, and my friends. 

I want to thank Carey Baker for his service, not only in the Armed Forces, but in the statehouse. As I came up on the stage, Mrs. Baker informed me they'll be having a child tomorrow.  Let's just make sure it's tomorrow. 

I want to thank Congressman Cliff Stearns for his leadership in the House of Representatives. I appreciate the service of the state chief financial officer, Tom Gallagher. I want to thank all the other state and local officials who are here. I want to thank Ralph Reed, the Bush-Cheney '04 Southeast Regional Chair, for his leadership and friendship. I want to thank Carole Jean Jordan, who's the Republican Party Florida chairman. I want to thank all the people who are involved in grassroots politics. I want to thank those of you who are putting up the signs. I want to thank those of you who are making the phone calls. With your help, there is no doubt in my mind we will carry Florida again and win a great victory on November the 2nd. 

Finally, I want to thank my friend, Mark Wills, the country singer who has been entertaining you today. 

In the last few years, the American people have come to know me. They know my blunt way of speaking. I get that from my mother.  They know that sometimes I mangle the English language. I get that from my father.  Americans also know that I tell you exactly what I'm going to do, and I keep my word. 

I enjoyed telling the people what I was going to do during our three debates. Those were important debates because they showed the clear differences between my opponent and me. We have different records, we have very different plans for the future. My record is one of reforming education, of lowering taxes, of providing prescription drug coverage for our seniors, of improving homeland protections, and of waging an aggressive war against the ideologues of hate. I enjoyed the chance to lay out my vision for the future. Instead of articulating a vision or a positive agenda for the future, the Senator, my opponent, is relying on a litany of complaints and an old-style scare tactic.



As proven by his record and a series of contradictions in this campaign, my opponent will say anything he thinks will benefit him politically at the time. I will do what I have said I will do. We will keep the promise of Social Security for our seniors, and there will no draft as long as I'm the President. On November the 2nd, the people of America will reject the politics of fear and vote for an agenda of hope and opportunity and security. 

When I came into office, the stock market had been in serious decline for six months. And then we headed into a recession. To help families and to get this economy growing again, I pledged to reduce taxes. I kept my word. The results are clear. The recession was one of the shallowest in American history. Over the last three years, our economy has grown at rates as fast as any in nearly 20 years. Today the home ownership rate in America is at an all-time high. In the past 13 months we've added more than 1.9 million new jobs. The unemployment rate in America is 5.4 percent, lower than the average rate of the 1970s, the 1980s, and the 1990s. The unemployment rate in Florida is 4.5 percent. This economy of ours is moving forward, and we're not going to go back to the days of tax and spend. 

To make sure quality jobs are created here in America, America must be the best place in the world to do business. That means less regulations on our job creators. That means we will do something about the frivolous lawsuits that plague our small business owners.

To keep jobs here, Congress needs to pass my energy plan. It's a plan that encourages conservation, a plan that encourages renewables, encourages new technologies. It's a plan that recognizes we can explore for natural gas in environmentally friendly ways. We will not drill off the coast of Florida. It's a plan that uses clean coal technology. To keep jobs here in America, America must be less dependent on foreign sources of energy. 

To create jobs we need to reject economic isolationism. We've opened up our markets from products for overseas, and that is good for the American consumer. See, the market works this way. If you have more products to choose from, you're likely to get that which you want at a better price and higher quality. So instead of shutting down our market, what we'll continue to do is open up other people's markets. I say to China, you treat us the way we treat you. We can compete with anybody, anytime, anywhere, so long as the playing field is level. 

To make sure this economy continue to grow, we've got to be wise about how we spend your money -- and keep your taxes low. My opponent has his own history on the economy. In 20 years as a senator from Massachusetts, he has built the record of -- a senator from Massachusetts.  He voted for higher taxes 98 times in his 20 years. That's about five times a year. I would call that a predictable pattern.  Now the Senator is promising not to raise taxes for anyone who earns less than $200,000 a year. He said that with a straight face.  The problem is, to keep that promise he would have to break almost all of his other ones. He's made a lot of promises. He's promised over $2.2 trillion -- a program of new spending. He said he's going to raise the money by taxing the rich. You can't raise enough money by taxing the rich to raise $2.2 trillion. There is a gap, a gap between what he's promised and what he can raise. And guess who usually gets to fill the gap?



Yeah. You've also heard that talk before about taxing the rich. The rich hire lawyers and accountants for a reason, to slip the bill and pass it on to you. We're not going to let him tax you. We're going to carry Florida and win on November the 2nd. 

When I came in this office, our public schools had been waiting decades for hopeful reform. Fortunately, you had a governor who had been providing hopeful reform. But too many of our children were shuffled through school year after year, grade after grade, without learning the basics. I pledged to restore accountability to our schools and end the soft bigotry of low expectations, and I kept my word. We're seeing the results. Our children are making sustained gains in reading and math. We're closing achievement gaps all across America. And we're not going to go back to the days of low standards and mediocrity in the public schools in America. 

When we came into office, we had a problem with Medicare. Medicine was changing; Medicare was not. And let me give you an example. Many here understand what I'm talking about. Medicare would pay hundreds of thousands of dollars for heart surgery, but not one dime for the prescription drugs that could prevent the heart surgery from being needed in the first place. That did not make any sense for people on Medicare. It didn't make any sense for the taxpayers of the country. I pledged to bring Republicans and Democrats together to strengthen and modernize Medicare for our seniors. I kept my word. Seniors are getting discounts on medicine, and beginning in 2006, all seniors will be able to get prescription drugs coverage under Medicare.

We have more work to do when it comes to moving forward with health care. I have practical plans to make sure health care is available and affordable. We need a safety net for those with the greatest need. I believe in community health centers, places where the poor and the indigent can get good preventative and primary care. In a new term, we'll make sure every poor county in America has a community health center. We will do more to make sure poor children are fully subscribed in our programs for low-income families.

Do you realize that half of the working uninsured work for small businesses? Small businesses are having trouble affording health care. In order to help our workers get health care, in order to help small businesses, we must allow small businesses to pool together, to join together, so they can buy insurance at the same discounts big companies are able to do. We will continue to expand health savings accounts so workers and small businesses are able to pay lower premiums and people can save tax-free in a health care account they call their own.

To make sure health care is available and affordable, we must do something about the junk lawsuits that are running up the cost of health care and running good docs out of practice. By forcing doctors to practice defensive medicine, medical lawsuits cost the government, and therefore, you, about $28 billion a year. Lawsuits drive up insurance premiums, which drive good doctors out of practice. I have met too many OB/GYNs who are worried about being able to stay in practice. I have met too many of their patients, women who are worried about getting the health care they need. See, you can't be pro-doctor, pro-patient, and pro-personal injury lawyer at the same time. You have to choose. My opponent made his choice and he put a personal injury lawyer on the ticket. I made my choice. I'm standing with the docs and the patients. I am for medical liability reform now. 

And I urge you to vote for Mel Martinez in the Senate. He will join us in fighting for medical liability reform now. 

My opponent has a health care plan, a plan for bigger, more intrusive government. The other day, he tried to tell the Americans that when it comes to his health care plan -- and I quote -- "The government has nothing to do with it." I could barely contain myself.  Facts are eight out of ten people who get health care under Senator Kerry's plan would be placed on a government program. He said his plan helps small businesses, but yet, further study concluded that it is an overpriced albatross that would saddle small businesses with 225 new mandates. I have a better idea. I want to help small businesses afford health care, not saddle them with new government rules. 

The choice in this election is clear. My opponent wants to move in the direction of government-run health care. I believe health decisions should be made by patients and doctors, not by officials in Washington, D.C. He can run, but he cannot hide. 

I have set out policies that move this country toward a positive and optimistic vision. I believe our country can and must become an ownership society. You know, there's an old saying, no one ever washes a rental car.  A lot of wisdom in that statement. When you own something, you care about it. When you own something, you have a vital stake in the future of your country. That's why we'll continue to encourage ownership. Every time a small business is started, someone is achieving the American Dream. That's why we're encouraging health savings accounts, so people have the security of owning their own health care plan. That's why we'll continue to spread the ownership of homes all across America. I love it when more and more people from all walks of life open up the door where they live and say, welcome to my home; welcome to my piece of property. 

In a new term, we'll take the next step toward building an ownership society by strengthening Social Security. Now, let me remind you of something that took place in the 2000 campaign. They said in those political ads that if George W. gets elected, our seniors will not get their Social Security checks. You might remember those ads. I want you to remind your friends and neighbors they got their checks. Nobody is going to take away the checks of those who are now on Social Security. And baby boomers like me, we're in pretty good shape when it comes to Social Security. But we need to worry about our children and our grandchildren. We need to make sure Social Security is available for them. That is why I believe younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own payroll taxes and put it in a personal savings account that will earn better interest, a personal savings account they can call their own, an account the government cannot take away. 

My opponent wants to maintain the status quo when it comes to Social Security. That is unacceptable for younger Americans. I believe a President should solve problems, not pass them on to future generations or future presidents. On issue after issue, from Medicare without choices to schools with less accountability to higher taxes on working Americans, my opponent takes the side of more centralized control and bigger government. There's a word for that attitude. It's called liberalism.



He dismisses it as simply a label. He must have seen it differently when he told a newspaper, I am a liberal and proud of it. Don't take my word for it. Take the word of the nonpartisan National Journal Magazine that did a study of voting records and named him the most liberal member of the United States Senate. That takes a lot of hard work.  It's hard to be more liberal than the likes of Ted Kennedy. He can run, but he cannot hide. 

I have a very different record and a different philosophy. I do not believe in big government, and I do not believe that government should be indifferent. I am a compassionate conservative. I believe in policies that empower people to improve their lives, not try to run their lives. I believe we should help men and women find the skills and tools needed to prosper in a time of change. We're helping all Americans to have a future of dignity and independence, and that is now I will lead our nation for four more years. 



In this time of change -- in this time of change, some things do not change -- the values we try to live by, courage and compassion, reverence and integrity. In a time of change, we must support the institutions that give our lives direction and purpose -- our families, our schools, our places of worship. We stand for a culture of life in which every person matters and every being counts. We stand for marriage and family, which are the foundations of our society. We stand for the appointment of federal judges who know the difference between personal opinion and the strict interpretation of the law. 

This election will also determine how America responds to the continuing danger of terrorism. The most solemn duty of the American President is to protect the American people. If America shows uncertainty or weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This will not happen on my watch. 

Since that terrible morning of September the 11th, 2001, we have fought the terrorists across the Earth -- not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake. Our strategy is clear. We're defending the homeland. We're reforming and strengthening our intelligence capabilities. We're transforming our military so the all-volunteer army will remain an all-volunteer army. We're staying on the offensive. We will strike the terrorists abroad so we do not have to face them here at home. 

We will spread freedom and liberty, and we will prevail. Our strategy is succeeding. Think about the world the way it was some three-and-a-half years ago. Afghanistan was the home base of al Qaeda. Pakistan was a transit point for terrorist groups. Saudi Arabia was fertile ground for terrorist fundraising. Libya was secretly pursuing nuclear weapons. Iraq was a dangerous place and a gathering threat, and al Qaeda was largely unchallenged as it planned attacks.

Because we led, because the United States of America was firm in our resolve, Afghanistan is free and is now an ally in the war on terror. Pakistan is capturing terrorist leaders. Saudi Arabia is making raids and arrests. Libya is dismantling its weapons programs. The army of a free Iraq is fighting for freedom, and more than three-quarters of al Qaeda's key members and associates have been brought to justice. 

We're standing with the people in Afghanistan and Iraq. I want the youngsters here to understand how profound history has changed because of the actions we took to defend ourselves. Think about Afghanistan. It wasn't all that long ago that the Taliban ran that country. These ideologues of hatred would not even allow young girls to go to school, and their mothers were taken into the public square and whipped if they didn't toe their line. Because we acted, because we upheld doctrine that said if you harbor a terrorist, you're equally as guilty as a terrorist, millions of citizens went to vote in a presidential election. The first voter in Afghanistan for the election of a President was a 19-year-old woman. 

Freedom is on the march. Freedom is on the march in a part of world that no one ever dreamt would be free. In Iraq, there will be presidential elections in several months. Think how far that country has come, from the days of torture rooms and mass graves. No, we're standing with those people. When American gives its word, America must keep its word. And we're standing with them. And we're standing with them because we understand that free societies in the Middle East will be hopeful societies, which no longer feed resentments and breed violence for export. Free governments in the Middle East will fight the terrorists, instead of harboring them. And that will help us keep the peace.

Our strategy -- our strategy and our mission in Afghanistan and Iraq should be clear. We'll train the armies and the police in those countries so the people of Afghanistan and the people of Iraq can do the hard work of defending their freedom. We will get those countries on the path of stability and democracy as quickly as possible. And then our troops will come home with the honor they have earned. 

I am proud to be the Commander-in-Chief of a great United States military. I want to thank the veterans who are here for having set such a great example for those who wear the uniform. I want to thank the military families who are here. 

The single most important responsibility is to make sure our military has all the tools and resources they need to complete their missions. That's why I went to the United States Congress in September of 2003 and asked for $87 billion of funding to support our troops in combat. I was very pleased with the overwhelming bipartisan support for that initiative. The support was so strong that only 12 members of the United States Senate voted against the funding -- two of whom were my opponent and his running mate.



As you're out gathering the vote, remind people of this startling fact: There were only four members of the United States Senate who voted to authorize the use of force and then voted against funding our troops in harm's way -- only four members, two of whom were my opponent and his running mate.



You might remember his famous quote when they asked him about his vote, he said, I actually did vote for the $87 billion right before I voted against it.



Sunday -- Sunday was the one-year anniversary of Senator Kerry's vote against funding for our troops. My opponent's many and conflicting positions on this issue are a case study into why his contradictions call into question his credibility and his ability to lead our nation. September of 2003, as the $87 billion funding package was being debated in Congress, he said on national TV, "It would be irresponsible to abandon our troops by voting against it." His words. And yet one month later, he did exactly that irresponsible thing; he voted against the funding. And so we say, why, what happened to change the Senator's mind so abruptly in one month? Well, his opponent in the Democrat primary, Howard Dean, was gaining ground as an antiwar candidate. Senator Kerry apparently decided supporting the troops, even while in harm's way was not as important as shoring up his own political position.



At a time -- at a time of a great threat to our country, at a time of great challenge in the world, the Commander-in-Chief must stand on principle, not on the shifting sands of political convenience. 

We have big differences when it comes to how to protect America. You might remember in one of the debates Senator Kerry proposed that we must pass a global test before we defend ourselves.



I didn't make that up. I was standing right there. I heard him.  The problem with the global test is that the Senator can never pass it. And that's dangerous in the world in which we live. I say he can't because remember 1990, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution supporting action to remove Saddam Hussein from Kuwait. The international community was united. Countries throughout the world joined the coalition. And yet even after United Nations' approval, Senator Kerry voted against the authorization for the use of force. He says removing Saddam Hussein was a mistake, during one of the debates.



He said -- well, here's how he would have solved the problem. He would have asked the United Nations to pass another United Nations Security Council resolution.



Precisely what Saddam Hussein wanted to hear, another resolution. Had the Senator had his way, Saddam Hussein not only would be sitting in a palace, he would have occupied Kuwait, and the world would be dangerous for it. America is better off with Saddam Hussein sitting in a prison cell. 

I'll work to build alliance. We'll work to make sure our coalition remains strong, but I will never turn over America's national security decisions to leaders of other countries. 

I believe in the transformational power of liberty. I'll tell you what I mean by that. One of our friends in the international community is the Prime Minister of Japan, Koizumi. I saw him at the United Nations and said, you know, I'm talking about you everywhere you go across the country. I said, I hope you don't mind. He said, no. I didn't tell him I was going to tell you, though, that his favorite singer was Elvis.  Shows we're getting to know each other quite well. Doesn't seem like much, does it, that the head of Japan is a friend. But think about the history. Wasn't all that long ago, 60 years ago, that we were at war with the Japanese. Perhaps some here in the crowd was in that war. My dad, our dad, was fighting the Japanese. I guarantee you people had relatives fighting the Japanese who are here. They were the sworn enemy of the United States of America.

After we won that war, Harry S. Truman, President of the United States, along with other Americans, believed in the power of liberty to transform an enemy into an ally. And there was a lot of skepticism about that. You can imagine why. Japan conceivably becoming a democracy, people would ask. Why do we worry about an enemy that has upset so many families in America? But people believe, and as a result of people having firm belief, I sit down now at the table with the Prime Minister of Japan, talking about the peace we all want. Some day, an American President will be sitting down with the duly-elected leader of Iraq, talking about keeping the peace in the Middle East, and our children and our grandchildren will be better off for it. 

I believe that millions in the Middle East plead in silence for their freedom. I believe women in the Middle East want to live in a free society. I believe the mothers and the fathers of the Middle East want to bring their children up in a free and peaceful world. I believe all these things, because freedom is not America's gift to the world, freedom is the Almighty God's gift to each man and woman in this world. 

For all Americans, these years in our history will always stand apart. There are quiet times in the life of a nation when little is expected of its leaders. This is not one of those times. This is a time that requires firm resolve, clear vision, and a deep faith in the values that makes this a great nation.

None of us will ever forget that week when one era ended and another began. On September the 14th, 2001, I stood in the ruins of the Twin Towers. It's a day I will never forget. I will never forget the voices of those in hard hats yelling at me at the top of their lungs, "Whatever it takes!" I will never forget the look in the man's eyes as he grabbed me by the arm and he said, "Do not let me down." Ever since that day, I wake up every morning thinking about how to better protect our country. I will never relent in defending America, whatever it takes. 

Four years ago, when I traveled your great state, four years ago when I came to The Villages, for that matter, I made this pledge, that if you gave me a chance to serve, I would uphold the honor and the dignity of the office to which I had been elected. With your help, I will do so for four more years. God bless. Thanks for coming. Thank you all. Thank you all. 

Thank you all for coming.   Thank you all for coming. It seems like yesterday I was here in Wilkes-Barre.   Come to think of it, I was.   I figure if I keep coming back I'll meet everybody in town.   I'm coming back because I want you to know how important your vote is. That's why I'm here. We're close to voting time.   I've come back to tell you how important your help is in this election. Find your friends and neighbors. Convince them to go to the polls on November the 2nd. Do not overlook discerning Democrats, people like Zell Miller.   And remind your friends and neighbors, if they want safer America, a stronger, and a better America, to put me and Dick Cheney back in office.  

I regret that Laura is not traveling with us today.

Awww --

Yes, that is generally the reaction.   Kind of like, why didn't you stay home and let her come.   You know, we were in the same grade at San Jacinto Junior High in Midland, Texas. That would be the 7th grade. And then I became reacquainted with her when she was a public school librarian.   And when I asked her to marry me, she said, fine, but make me a promise. I said, what is it? Promise me I'll never have to give a speech.   I said, okay, you got a deal. Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that promise. She's giving a lot of speeches. And when she does, the American people see a warm, compassionate, great First Lady.  

I love traveling with my daughters on the campaign trail. There's nothing better than being with somebody who -- well, tells you to keep your tie straight.   Don't spill your food before you get out there and talk to the people.   You know, I used to tell Barbara and Jenna that one of these days, we'll go on a camping trip together, the great family camping experience. I'm sure they envisioned the Colorado River or somewhere. Well darling, this is it. This is the great --   We're traveling this country asking for the vote, and I'm glad Barbara is by my side.  

I spoke with our great Vice President this morning. His spirits are high. He's working hard. I admit that Vice President Cheney does not have the waviest hair in the race.   I didn't pick him because of his hairdo.   I picked him because of his experience, his sound judgement, and his ability to get the job done for the American people.  

I'm pleased to be sharing the platform with Congressman Don Sherwood. He's doing a great job.   And Congressman Jim Greenwood is traveling today. He comes up from the suburbs of Philadelphia. I'm proud to have his support and I'm proud to call him friend. Thanks for coming, Congressman.  

Specter is out there working on behalf of his own campaign and Santorum is out there working for mine. They're two fine United States Senators.   I hope you put Arlen Specter back in office.  

I want to thank all the state and local officials. I want to thank Jean Craige Pepper for being here, the candidate for treasurer of the state. I appreciate people who are running for office. I want to thank my friend, Sammy Kershaw, country singer.  

Most of all, I want to thank the grassroots activists who are here, the people putting up all the signs, making the phone calls, writing the letters.   I'm here to thank you for what you're going to do as we're coming down the stretch. There is no doubt in my mind, with your hard work and with your help, we will carry Pennsylvania and win a great victory in November.  

With just 11 days left in this campaign -- who's counting?   Voters are focusing on the issues that matter most for their families and for our country. You've heard the debates. You know where I stand. Sometimes you even know where my opponent stands. (Laughter and applause.) You've had a chance to see both of us in action, to measure our consistency, our resolve, our values and our ability to lead. This election comes down to five clear choices for the American families, five choices on issues of great consequence: your family security, your budget, your quality of life, your retirement, and the bedrock values that are so critical to our families and our future.  

The first clear choice is very important because it concerns the security of your family. All progress on every other issue depends on the safety of our citizens. This will be the first presidential election since September the 11th, 2001. Americans will go to the polls in a time of war and ongoing threat to our country. The enemies who killed thousands of innocent people are still dangerous and determined to strike us again. The outcome of this election will set the direction of the war against terror, and in this war there is no place for confusion and no substitute for victory.  

The most solemn duty -- the most solemn duty of the American President is to protect the American people. If America shows uncertainty or weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This will not happen on my watch.  

Since that -- since that terrible morning of September the 11th, 2001, we have fought the terrorists across the Earth -- not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake. Our strategy is clear. We're defending the homeland; we're strengthening our intelligence capabilities; we are transforming our all-volunteer army to make sure it remains an all-volunteer army --   We are staying on the offensive, and we are succeeding. More than three-quarters of al Qaeda's key members and associates have been brought to justice, and the rest of them know we're after them.   We are in a real war, and the only strategy must lead to victory.

My opponent has a different approach. He says that September the 11th -- quote -- "didn't change me much at all."

Booo!

And that's pretty clear. He considers the war on terror primarily a law enforcement and intelligence gathering operation. His top foreign policy advisor has questioned whether it's even a war at all, saying that's just a metaphor, like the war on poverty. I've got news. Anyone who thinks we are fighting a metaphor does not understand the enemy we face and has no idea how to win the war and keep America secure.  

My opponent also misunderstands our battle against insurgents and terrorists. He's called it a diversion from the war on terror. My opponent used to recognize Saddam Hussein as a threat. That's until he started to slide in the polls. Saddam Hussein was a threat to the United States. He hated America. He had a long history of pursuing and even using weapons of mass destruction. He had ties to terrorists. He was firing missiles at American pilots enforcing the sanctions of the world. He paid families of suicide bombers. He was a threat.  

We didn't find the stockpiles that we thought were in Iraq, that I thought was there, that my opponent thought was there, that the United Nations thought was there, that the world thought was there. But I want you to remember -- tell your friends and neighbors what the Duelfer report did find. It said that Saddam Hussein had the intent and capability and the expertise to rebuild a weapons program; that he was gaming the system, he was using the oil-for-food program to try to influence officials of other nations to get rid of the sanctions. And why? Because he wanted the world to look the other way so he could restart his programs. That was a risk we could not afford to take. Knowing what I know today, I would have taken the same action.   America and the world are safer with Saddam Hussein sitting in a prison cell.  

Remember, my opponent called our action a mistake. That's after he started slipping in the polls.   Iraq is still dangerous because terrorists there are trying to stop the advance of freedom and elections. A man named Zarqawi is responsible for planting car bombs and beheading Americans in Iraq. He ran a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan until our coalition forces destroyed that camp. He then fled to Iraq where he's fighting us today. To confirm where he's coming from, he recently announced his allegiance to al Qaeda. If Zarqawi and his associates were not busy fighting American forces in Iraq, does my opponent think the would be peaceful citizens of the world?   Does he think they'd be opening a small business somewhere? (Laughter and applause.)

Fighting the likes of Zarqawi in Iraq is not a diversion from the war on terror; it is the way we will win the war on terror.   When it comes to your security, the choice in this election could not be clearer. You cannot lead our nation to decisive victory on which the security of every American family depends if you do not see the true dangers of the post-September the 11th era. My opponent has a September 10th point of view. At his convention, he declared his strategy was to respond to attacks after America had been hit.

Booo!

As we learned on September the 11th, it's too late to respond. In our debates, he said we can defend America only if we pass a global test.

Booo!

I'm not making that up. He was standing right there when he said it.   No, we'll work with friends and allies, but I will never turn over America's national security decisions to leaders of other countries.  

For the sake of our freedom, and for your security, we'll fight this war with every asset of our national power. We'll protect America by striking the terrorists abroad, so we do not have to face them here at home. And we will prevail.  

Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!

We've got another powerful asset at our disposal, and that's liberty. And that's freedom.   I want the youngsters here listening to think about what has happened in a brief period of time, some three-and-a-half years in Afghanistan. It wasn't all that long ago in that country that young girls were not allowed to go to school, and their mothers were taken into the public square and whipped, or sometimes taken to a sports stadium and executed because they refused to toe the line of the ideologues of hate, the Taliban which ran Afghanistan.

In working to secure ourselves, in ridding that country of terrorist camps, of upholding a doctrine that said, if you harbor a terrorist, you're just as guilty as the terrorist, we liberated over 25 million people in Afghanistan. And just a couple of weeks ago, millions of Afghan citizens voted in a presidential election, and the first voter was a 19-year-old woman.   Freedom is on the march. That society has gone from darkness to light because of liberty, and America is more secure because of it. Free societies are peaceful societies. Free societies will not harbor terrorists. Free societies will be hopeful places where people can realize their dreams.

Iraq will have elections in January. Iraq is changing. Think how far that country has come from the days of mass graves and torture chambers and the brutal reign of one man. I believe liberty has the capacity to transform societies and make the world a more peaceful place.

One of our friends in the world is Prime Minister Koizumi. I said, "our" -- I'm talking about Laura and me. He is -- he's a good man. He's a person with whom I work. It wasn't all that long ago that we were at war with the Japanese. See, 60 years ago, we were fighting the Japanese. My dad was in that war. I'm confident many other people were in that war, or families represented were -- had fathers and grandfathers in the war against the Japanese.  

After World War II, Harry Truman -- after we won that war, Harry Truman believed in the power of liberty to transform an enemy into an ally. There were a lot of skeptics then. There were a lot of doubters the Japanese, the enemy could never become a democracy. Why do we even want to help them, some would say. After all, they destroyed a lot of U.S. lives. But there was faith and belief in the power of liberty to transform societies. And today, because of that belief, I sit down with the Prime Minister of Japan talking about keeping the peace that we all want, talking about dealing with the world's problems. Some day, a duly-elected leader from Iraq will be sitting down with the President of the United States of America, talking about the peace in the Middle East, and our children and our grandchildren will be better off for it.  

Freedom is on the march in this world. I believe everybody in the Middle East desires to live in freedom. I believe women in the Middle East want to live in a free society. I believe mothers and fathers want to raise their children in a free and peaceful world. I believe all these things because freedom is not America's gift to the world, freedom is the Almighty God's gift to each man and woman in this world.  

The second clear choice in this election concerns your family budget. When I ran for President four years ago, I pledged to lower taxes for American families, and I kept my word.   To help our families, we doubled the child credit to $1,000 per child. We reduced the marriage penalty. Our tax code should encourage marriage, not discourage marriage.   We dropped the lowest tax bracket to 10 percent so working families, working Americans can keep more of their paychecks. We reduced income taxes for everyone that pays taxes. That's the fair way of doing things.  

As a result of our policies, real after-tax income, money in your pocket that you can spend, is up about 10 percent since I took office.   Because of tax relief, because we increased consumer spending and investment, our economy is overcoming the tough times we've been through.

Remind your friends and neighbors that when I got in office, the stock market had been in serious decline for six months prior to our arrival.   Then we were in a recession. And the attacks of September the 11th, 2001 cost us nearly a million jobs in the three months after the attacks. But because we acted, this economy of ours is strong and it's getting stronger. Our economy is growing at rates as fast as any in nearly 20 years. We've added 1.9 million new jobs in the last three months. The state of Pennsylvania has added 4,600 jobs in the month of September, 2004.   The unemployment rate across America is at 5.4 percent, lower than the average rates of the 1970s, the 1980s, and the 1990s.   And the new unemployment rate figure in the state of Pennsylvania released today is 5.3 percent.  

My opponent has a very different plan for your budget. He intends to take a bigger chunk out of it.

Booo!

He voted against the -- he voted against a higher child tax credit. He voted against marriage penalty relief. He voted against lowering the tax rates. If his vote had prevailed, an average middle-class family would be paying $2,000 more a year to the IRS.

Booo!

That's a fact. It's also part of a pattern. See, the Senator voted ten times to raise taxes on gasoline. All told, during his 20 years in the United States Senate, my opponent has voted to raise taxes 98 times. That's about five times a year. When he does something that often, he must really enjoy it.   During his campaign, my opponent has made a lot of big, expensive promises. He promised about $2.2 trillion of new spending. That's with a "T."   That's a lot, even for a senator from Massachusetts.  

So they said, how are you going to pay for it? He said, oh, we'll just tax the rich. We've heard that before, haven't we? He's going to raise the top two brackets. There's three things -- a lot of things wrong with it, but let me give you three right off the bat. One is, by raising individual rates, you're taxing many, many small businesses. Seventy percent of the new jobs in America are created by small businesses. Most small businesses pay tax at the individual income tax level. And by running up the top two brackets, you're taxing the job creators, and that's bad economic policy.   Secondly, there's a gap between what he's promised and what he can deliver. By raising the top two brackets, you raise about $600 billion to $800 billion, and he's promised $2.2 trillion, so there's a gap, a gap between the promises and what he can deliver. Guess who gets to usually fill those gaps? Secondly -- or thirdly, the rich hire lawyers and accountants for a reason when it comes to taxes. That's to slip the bill and stick you with it. But we're going to protect the family budgets. We're going to carry Pennsylvania and win a great victory on November the 2nd.  

When it comes to your budget, you have a clear choice. My opponent has earned -- and I mean earned -- his rank as the most liberal member of the United States Senate. He'll raise your taxes to fund bigger government. I'm going to keep your taxes low. This is the road to prosperity. It's a road to economic vitality. Now, when it comes to taxes, he may try to run in a camouflaged outfit, but he cannot hide. (Laughter and applause.)

The third choice in this election involves the quality of life for our families. I believe a good education and quality health care are important for successful lives. When I ran for President four years ago, I promised to end the soft bigotry of low expectations by reforming our public schools, and I kept my word.   We passed good education reform. We're raising the standards. We're making sure our schools are accountable -- accountable to our parents. We're seeing progress. Math and reading scores are on the rise. We're closing the achievement gap all across this country. We will build on these reforms. We will extend them to our high schools so that not one single child in America is left behind.  

We will continue to improve life for our families by making health care more affordable and more accessible. We'll expand health savings accounts and creation association health plans so small businesses can cover their workers, so more families are able to get health insurance plans they manage and they call their own. We'll help families in need by expanding community health centers. We'll make sure every eligible child is enrolled in our government's low-income health insurance program. To make sure health care is available and affordable for the American citizens, we're going to do something about the junk lawsuits that run up the cost of medicine and run good doctors out of practice.  

Doctor Linda Barrasse is with us today, a cardiologist.   She's got a group practice in Scranton. She's just like the docs I met yesterday in Chester County, Pennsylvania. Doctors are concerned about the quality of health care in Pennsylvania because of all these junk lawsuits. They're running good docs out of practice. There are too many OB/GYNs being run out of practice, and too many Pennsylvania women having to drive for miles to get the care they need and deserve.  

Linda talks about needing to close offices. They're having trouble recruiting new doctors. Medical liability is an issue in the Pennsylvania. It is an issue across this country. It is a national problem that requires a national solution. I am for medical liability reform.  

Senator Kerry has a different point of view on our schools and our health care system. Now, he voted for the No Child Left Behind Act, but now wants to weaken the accountability standards. He's proposed including measures like teacher attendance in the accountability measures to judge whether students can read and write and add and subtract. He voted against health savings accounts. He opposed association health care plans that would help our small businesses. He has voted ten times against medical liability reform on the floor of the United States Senate.

Booo!

The other day, he said, well, he's for some kind of plan.   He put a trial lawyer on the ticket.

Booo!

He can run, but he cannot hide.  

He's proposed a big government health care plan that would cause eight million families to lose the private coverage they get at work and have to go on a government plan. Eighty percent of the people who get coverage under his proposal would be enrolled on a government program. You might remember one of our debates. He tried to tell the Americans, when it comes to his health care plan -- and I quote -- "the government has nothing to do with it." I could barely contain myself when I heard that.   My opponent's plan would move America down the road to federal control of health care, and that is the wrong road to take for American families.  

In all we do to reform health care, we will make sure the decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in Washington, D.C.  

Fourth clear choice in this election involves your retirement. Our nation made a solid commitment to America's seniors on Social Security and on Medicare. When I ran for President four years ago, I promised to keep that commitment and improve Medicare by adding prescription drugs. I kept my word.   Leaders in both political parties have talked about strengthening Medicare for years. We got the job done. Seniors are now getting discounts on medicine with drug discount cards. Low-income seniors are getting $600 to help them with their prescription drugs this year, another $600 next year, and beginning in 2006, all seniors will be able to get prescription drug coverage under Medicare.  

My opponent voted against the Medicare bill that included prescription drugs, even though it was supported by AARP and other seniors groups. During this campaign, he said -- quote -- "If I'm President, we're going to repeal that phony bill." End quote. Then, of course, later on, he said, no, I don't want to repeal it. Sounds familiar.   As your President for the next four years, I will defend the reforms we have worked so hard to pass, and we will keep the promise of Medicare for America's seniors.  

We will keep the promise of Social Security for our seniors and strengthen Social Security for generations to come.   Every election, politicians try to scare seniors about Social Security. It's predictable. In the 2000 campaign, they ran ads saying that if George W. gets elected, our seniors will not get their checks. You might remember those ads. As you round up the vote, would you please remind our seniors, George W. got elected, and our seniors got their checks.   And when I get elected this time, the seniors will still get their checks.  

But I know today's moms and dads and grandparents are concerned about their children and grandchildren when it comes to Social Security. Some day, our youngest workers, of course, will retire, and we need to make sure Social Security will be there when they need it, as well.   I believe younger workers ought to take some of their own money and put it in a personal savings account, a personal savings account that will earn a greater rate of return than a Social Security trust, a personal savings account, they can call their own, an account the government cannot take away.  

My opponent takes a different approach. He talks about protecting Social Security, but I want everybody to remember, he is the only candidate who has voted eight times for higher taxes on Social Security benefits.

Booo!

When it comes to the next generation, he has offered nothing to strengthen Social Security. American families have a clear choice in this election. My opponent wants to scare the seniors of today and do nothing to secure the system for seniors of tomorrow. I'll keep the promise of Social Security and Medicare, and strengthen these great systems for our children and our grandchildren.  

The fifth clear choice in this election is on the values that are so crucial to keeping America's families strong. Here, my opponent and I are miles apart. I believe marriage is a sacred commitment -- (applause) -- one of the most fundamental, most enduring, and most important institutions of our civilization. My opponent says he supports marriage, but his record shows he will not defend it. This isn't a partisan issue. The vast majority of Democrats, for example, supported the Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as the union of a man and a woman, a bill which President Clinton signed into law. But Senator Kerry was a part of the far left bank, far left minority, that voted against that piece of legislation. I will always stand firm to protect the sanctity of marriage.  

I believe it is important to work with people to find common ground on difficult issues. Republicans and Democrats, many citizens on both sides of the life issue, agreed we should ban the brutal practice of partial birth abortion.   But Senator Kerry was part of a far left minority that voted against the ban.

Booo!

He also voted against parental notification laws and voted against the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. I will continue to --

Booo!

I will continue to reach out to Americans of every belief, and move this good-hearted nation toward a culture of life.  

My opponent -- my opponent has said that you can find the heart and soul of America in Hollywood.   Most of us don't look to Hollywood as the source of values.   The heart and soul of America is found right here in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.  

All these choices make this one of the most important elections in our history. The security and prosperity of our country, the health and education of our citizens, the retirement of our seniors, and the direction of our culture are all at stake. The decision is in the best hands because the decision belongs to the American people.  

I believe in the future of this country. We see a great day for the American people. One of my favorite quotes was written by a Texan, a friend of ours. He said, "Sarah and I live on the east side of the mountain. It's the sunrise side, not the sunset side. It is the side that sees the day that is coming, not to see the day that is gone." My opponent has spent a lot of this campaign talking about the day that is gone. I see the day that's coming.  

We've been through a lot together. We've been through a lot together in the last years. Because we've done the hard work of climbing that mountain, we see the valley below. We'll protect our families. We'll build on their prosperity. We'll defend our deepest values. We will spread freedom and peace. And as we do, America will be safer here at home.

Four years ago, when I traveled your great state asking for the vote, I made a pledge that if you honored me with this office, I would uphold the honor and the dignity. With your help, I will do so for four more years. Thanks for coming. On to victory! Thank you all. Thank you all.  